---
title: "V2.4.0"
date:  2020-08-30T10:28:41+01:00
weight: 1
---
# V2.4.0

Sakuli V2.4.0 brings new features but also a lot of improvements and bug fixes for enhanced user experience.
Let's have a look at the major changes for this release.

## Sakuli Core

Besides node 12 support and adjustments in Sakuli click actions, we've improved CLI output in case of check/test failures and added ways to ensure a stable website before performing any action.
A detailed list of all applied enhancement and fixes can be found in the
[CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/sakuli/sakuli/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md).

### Preset Autodiscovery
In Sakuli 2.4.0 we got rid of tedious manual configuration of presets.
Instead of listing desired presets in a dedicated `"sakuli"` section in your `package.json` file, it is now sufficient to `npm install` your desired presets.
Sakuli will automatically detect and enable installed presets for you, no more configuration required!

### Scroll Behaviour
For every interaction with webelements (clicking, highlighting, etc.), Sakuli makes sure the respective element is scrolled into the browser's viewport.
In 2.4.0 we enhanced this mechanism to stabilize test cases and behave even more like a real user.
**Attention:** Please note that this new behaviour might lead to a slight increase in test runtime.

### Configurable Screenshot Folder Structure
In Sakuli 2.x we changed the default folder structure of error screenshots so they are stored in per-testcase subfolders.
2.4.0 adds a property to re-enable Sakuli 1.x storage layout using a single folder.

### Testcase Boilerplate
New projects bootstrapped via `sakuli create project ...` now come with a default testcase boilerplate to get you started even faster.

### Native Highlight
From 2.4.0 on, it is possible to highlight regions detected via image matching like `screen.find("image.png).highlight()`.

### Retrieve Active Window Region
In some cases it can be beneficial to limit search input to the current window.
Previous releases of Sakuli were not able to properly detect the active window and instead return the whole display.
This problem has been fixed in 2.4.0 so `Environment#getRegionFromFocusedWinow` returns the correct region.

### Configurable Mouse Speed
Native mouse movement used to increase overall execution time of testcases due to it's rather slow default speed.
Sakuli 2.4.0 makes mouse speed configurable, so it's possible to save some time here!

### Improved Error Handling
In previous releases some errors in Sakuli testcases went unnoticed, causing Sakuli to exit silently.
Since such behaviour is rather frustrating, we investigated the root cause and added proper error handling to support users debugging testcases.

## Enterprise packages
### Forwarder Configuration
In line with preset autodiscovery we changed the validation mechanism of forwarder properties.
Property validation now only processes enabled presets to avoid errors with auto discovery.

### Prometheus Forwarder Error State
Due to a bug previous versions of Sakuli's Prometheus forwarder did not properly update error states.
This messes up reported results and therefor has been fixed in 2.4.0.

## Sakuli Container
### Git Support
Sakuli Containers now support Git repositories.
It is now possible to automatically clone a repository on container start, which makes Sakuli containers even more flexible.
Simply pass your repo URL via environment variable to have you repo's content availble at runtime.
