---
title: "V2.5.0"
date:  2021-03-12T13:52:41+02:00
weight: 3
---
# V2.5.0

## Sakuli Core

The new Sakuli Release 2.5.0 has many improvements in its luggage, which both users and developers have longed for. 
In addition, a completely new option for automation made it into the release! We are talking about the Sakuli OCR 
module. But everything in the right order! Let's get it started with the improvements on the Sakuli core! A detailed 
list of all applied enhancement and fixes can be found in the
[CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/sakuli/sakuli/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md).

### CI log mode
Since Sakuli is often used in combination with (test) automation tools, it was sometimes very difficult to get the
information from the log files. That's why we introduced log modes. With the help of the "CI" log mode, the log messages
are written directly to the console. That makes access in the context of automation significantly easier. For more 
information, please have a look at the [log mode documentation](https://sakuli.io/docs/configuring_tests/logging/#log-modes)

### Decrypt secrets on cli
It is now possible to use the [sakuli decrypt](https://sakuli.io/docs/cli/#sakuli-decrypt) cli command to decrypt secrets
providing the master key used for encryption. This allows you to receive already encrypted secrets as human-readable text
for e.g. debugging purposes.

### `testCase.startStep()`
As `testCase.endOfStep()` comes with some limitations in terms of monitoring integration, we introduced 
`testCase.startStep()`. This also deprecates `testCase.endOfStep()`. We highly encourage users to use `startStep()` 
instead. For more information, please have a look at the
[startStep API docs](https://sakuli.io/apidoc/sakuli-legacy/interfaces/testcase.html#startstep).

## Enterprise packages
### Sakuli OCR
With this release, we added the Sakuli OCR (optical character recognition) module to the enterprise package portfolio.
Leveraging the abilities of OCR, Sakuli is now able to interact with screen content based on the displayed text. For
more information, please have a look at the [Sakuli OCR documentation](https://sakuli.io/docs/enterprise_features/ocr/).

### Sakuli Container
#### Redirect logs to stdout
The `LogMode=ci` introduced to Sakuli core with the new release is now the default log mode of the container. That being
said, logs messages are represented on the console / stdout as well as in the log files. This makes it a lot easier to
access and analyze log messages.

#### Third party package installation
It is now possible to use third party packages mentioned in your `package.json` during containerized sakuli execution.
By setting the environment variable `INSTALL_PACKAGES` to `true`, the container will perform an `npm install` command
before executing checks. For more information, please have a look at the 
[documentation](https://sakuli.io/docs/enterprise_features/container/#4211-additional-dependencies)

#### OCR Module
The brand new OCR Module is also installed in the container and ready to use without an additional setup required.